And we said earlier that it sounds like we'll be talking about marriage.
And so if you look at verse 6, you see our days text, what God has joked together, let
no man put apart.
But actually, if you look at verse 3, you'll see the topic was divorce.
And Jesus used our days text to set the Pharisees straight on the matter of divorce.
But then in verse 9, he said, I say to you that whoever divorces his wife, except on
the grounds of sexual immorality, and Mary's another, commits adultery.
So since the topic is marriage and divorce, can our single brothers and sisters just tune
out of our discussion?
No, sometimes the man who puts apart the yoke that God put together proves to be a single
person.
And so look at the first sentence in our watchtower comments, it says, whether single or
married, all of us need to bear in mind Jesus' words.
Well, does coveting another's mate happen in the Christian congregation?
Yes.
How does it happen?
Well, if you look at the third sentence in our watchtower comments for today, it says,
if any Christian begins to entertain, that's how it happens.
Begins to entertain such a covetous desire, says he should, he or she should quickly route
it out, the unclean desire, even at the cost of great emotional pain because, and here
again, how does it happen?
Having allowed such selfish cravings to develop.
What the point described in our sentence here, the other person, likely does not even realize
that this person has covetous desire for them.
The desire is just beginning to be an entertain, and you notice a sentence did not say that
he and she should route it out, it says he or she should act quickly.
So it was a lone individual at this point.
Well, how does this covetous desire begin?
In the world, it could be at the first sighting of an attractive person, they instantly have
a desire for more.
But we have been groomed by Jehovah's word.
We have a high regard for morality.
So in the congregation, or even here at Bethel, the desire may develop not solely based
on looks, but on emotional attachment.
Usually the breaking of the yoke of marriage occurs when a third party is spending a considerable
amount of time with one of the mates, and we might mention that this is not necessarily
with malicious intent.
I just want scenario, a single pioneer brother and a married pioneer sister.
Well, obviously, they're going to be spending more time together than if either one of them
was not pioneering.
And periodically, they'll be in the same car group.
Over time, they get to know one another more.
And this is just circumstances.
But this can lead up to that third sentence in our comments where one of them, usually
unbeknownst to the other one, has began to entertain this covetous desire.
He needs to route that out quickly, otherwise there is a whole series of sad events that
could be launched that potentially could end up with the married sister divorced.
Well, this same progression can happen here at Bethel too, if a brother and sister work
together day after day.
Open please to Colossians 3.5 now.
Our watch star comment said, route out the desire, Colossians says dead in the desire.
But notice what happens if we do not quickly route out the desire.
Colossians 3.5.
It says dead in, therefore your body members that are on the earth is respects one sexual
immorality to uncleanness, uncontrolled sexual passion, hurtful desire, and greediness.
It says all of which is idolatry.
Well, the five inappropriate steps listed there seem to be in the order of gravity with
the most serious being first.
Look at the fifth one, greediness.
Now our previous edition used the word covetousness there.
But really the fundamental issue is greed.
Look one step back, hurtful or we could say covetous desire.
Well if we do not route it out immediately at the start of that stage what develops further.
Another step back, it says uncontrolled sexual passion.
And if we do not dead at that point go one step back, uncleanness.
You see now something physical has occurred between the two already.
Not fornication but uncleanness.
And if we do not check it at that point the most serious will occur.
Sexual immorality with the potential of breaking the one flesh bond.
Well, we want our brothers and sisters to continue to pioneer together single and married.
And it's impossible to adjust the circumstances of Bethel so that a brother and sister never
work together.
So how can we all protect ourselves from allowing this wrong desire to develop?
Please turn to Job 31.
Now we've considered these series of verses before but it's so pertinent to this discussion.
Let's be reminded of it, Job 31.
We call Job the integrity keeper rightly so but he was an imperfect integrity keeper.
He evidently had some thoughts and desires that troubled him.
Well what did he do to quickly route out that desire not allowed to develop further?
Job 31, one is our familiar one.
I have made a covenant with my eye so how could I show my show improper attention to a
virgin?
Well what's your place there?
But why would Job be moved to make a contract not to look at a woman with improper desire?
He must have been aware of some temptations within himself.
And so he took this strong measure to avoid it developing further.
Well if we start to entertain a wrong desire what should we do?
And I might mention this works for those who've had a problem with pornography.
Try not type up a contract with your eyes, sign it, and date it.
Put it in your wallet or next to the computer and review it periodically.
And then if you succumb to the desire again, save that contract but type up another one,
sign it and date it.
You see in time we can compare the duration between the contract dates and we can want
it to our progress.
Well hurtful desire leads to more and more depravity and that's the series of verses
here in 31.
Look at verse 3.
Did Job realize this series of events?
3.
Does not disaster await the wrongdoer and calamity of those doing what is harmful?
Verse 4 he knew he could not hide anything from Jehovah.
Six is powerful.
He realized this is an issue of integrity.
Let God weigh me in accurate scales than he will recognize my integrity.
Wrong desire is that serious.
He also realized that looking at entices the heart in a wrong direction in verse 7.
If my footsteps deviate from the way where my heart has followed after my eyes, and
in verse 9 you see on the same subject as verse 1.
If my heart has been enticed by a woman, and what would be the consequences of this progression
of events?
As judicial case.
Look at verse 11.
For that would be shameful conduct and an error deserving punishment by the judges.
So in summary, what God has joked together, let no man put apart.